README.md, before:

# Circle Limit
An [hyperbolic plane][wikipedia:hyperbolic-geometry] exploration of [Functional Geometry][paper:functional-geometry].

## Origin Story
At [Booster Conf 2023][conference:booster.2023] [Einar W. Høst][twitter:einarwh] presented the workshop [_The Escher school of Fish_][github:einarwh.workshop].

This workshop presents the ideas of Peter Hendersons [revised 2002 paper][paper:functional-geometry] _Functional Geometry_ by guiding participants through a JavaScript implementation.

During the Q&A it was mentioned that [_Circle Limit III_][wikipedia:circle-limit-III], another work by Escher, is not as easily adapted to the same drawing primitives.

[![Circle Limit III; Art on the hyperbolic plane](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/5/55/Escher_Circle_Limit_III.jpg/290px-Escher_Circle_Limit_III.jpg)][wikipedia:circle-limit-III]

I interjected that the ideas are still applicable, only that the underlying geometry is different.

After a quick consultation, we agreed to challenge ourselves and try to apply Hendersons ideas and create a workshop to reproduce Circle Limit III. 

## Goal
The goal of this project is

> A workshop where participants recreate Eschers Circle Limit III by applying the ideas of Functional Geometry to the hyperbolic plane.

In goals of the workshop itself should include

* **Having fun**: enjoying yourself is a great motivator and fascilitates creating an environment where learning is easier.
* **Learning about Functional Geometry**: the ideas presented in Functional Geometry are more widely applicable then just for creating complex pictures. Understanding these concepts allow people to apply them in different scenarios.
* **Exploring the hyperbolic plane**: [hyperbolic geometry][wikipedia:hyperbolic-geometry] is the lesser know cousin to [Euclidean geometry][wikipedia:euclidean-geometry]; the geometry of the plane, where lines and circles live. Exploring the similarities and difference of these geometries is a exciting oppertunity.

[conference:booster.2023]: https://2023.boosterconf.no/
[github:einarwh.workshop]: https://github.com/einarwh/escher-workshop-js
[paper:functional-geometry]: https://eprints.soton.ac.uk/257577/1/funcgeo2.pdf
[twitter:einarwh]: https://twitter.com/einarwh
[wikipedia:circle-limit-III]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circle_Limit_III
[wikipedia:euclidean-geometry]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euclidean_geometry
[wikipedia:hyperbolic-geometry]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperbolic_geometry

Commit message:

Reference the Circle Limit TiddlyWiki
The README reference the TiddlyWiki that documents resources, ideas an experiments

README.md, after:

# Circle Limit
An [hyperbolic plane][wikipedia:hyperbolic-geometry] exploration of [Functional Geometry][paper:functional-geometry].

## Origin Story
At [Booster Conf 2023][conference:booster.2023] [Einar W. Høst][twitter:einarwh] presented the workshop [_The Escher school of Fish_][github:einarwh.workshop].

This workshop presents the ideas of Peter Hendersons [revised 2002 paper][paper:functional-geometry] _Functional Geometry_ by guiding participants through a JavaScript implementation.

During the Q&A it was mentioned that [_Circle Limit III_][wikipedia:circle-limit-III], another work by Escher, is not as easily adapted to the same drawing primitives.

[![Circle Limit III; Art on the hyperbolic plane](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/5/55/Escher_Circle_Limit_III.jpg/290px-Escher_Circle_Limit_III.jpg)][wikipedia:circle-limit-III]

I interjected that the ideas are still applicable, only that the underlying geometry is different.

After a quick consultation, we agreed to challenge ourselves and try to apply Hendersons ideas and create a workshop to reproduce Circle Limit III. 

## Goal
The goal of this project is

> A workshop where participants recreate Eschers Circle Limit III by applying the ideas of Functional Geometry to the hyperbolic plane.

In goals of the workshop itself should include

* **Having fun**: enjoying yourself is a great motivator and fascilitates creating an environment where learning is easier.
* **Learning about Functional Geometry**: the ideas presented in Functional Geometry are more widely applicable then just for creating complex pictures. Understanding these concepts allow people to apply them in different scenarios.
* **Exploring the hyperbolic plane**: [hyperbolic geometry][wikipedia:hyperbolic-geometry] is the lesser know cousin to [Euclidean geometry][wikipedia:euclidean-geometry]; the geometry of the plane, where lines and circles live. Exploring the similarities and difference of these geometries is a exciting oppertunity.

## Explorations
Although the goal is clear, the means to reach it as clear. Ideas, thoughts, explorations and experiments are needed before fleshing out the actual workshop.

In order to document these activities the [Circle Limit TiddlyWiki][documentation:tiddlywiki] is created. A [TiddlyWiki][tiddlywiki] is a

> unique non-linear notebook for capturing, organising and sharing complex information.

[conference:booster.2023]: https://2023.boosterconf.no/
[documentation:tiddlywiki]: https://fifth-postulate.nl/circle-limit/index.html
[github:einarwh.workshop]: https://github.com/einarwh/escher-workshop-js
[paper:functional-geometry]: https://eprints.soton.ac.uk/257577/1/funcgeo2.pdf
[tiddlywiki]: https://tiddlywiki.com/
[twitter:einarwh]: https://twitter.com/einarwh
[wikipedia:circle-limit-III]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circle_Limit_III
[wikipedia:euclidean-geometry]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euclidean_geometry
[wikipedia:hyperbolic-geometry]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperbolic_geometry
